# G20
### Motion: Intake 1
The G20 has been considered as an important forum for the world's largest economies to discuss and coordinate international development policies. However, by only allowing the world's largest economies to join the forum, the G20 has been criticised as elitist, undemocratic, and exclusionary. Developing countries, particularly the African and Pacific ones, are largely underrepresented in the forum. Inevitably, key international development policies are designed only by the small club of rich countries without the participation of the developing countries.
>Do you agree with the criticism against the G20? Why?
>How should the international community formulate and coordinate international development policies?

[[G20 Essay]]

# What is G20?
- Group of Twenty (G20) → International Intergovernmental forum comprising of 19 countries and the [[European Union]]
- Composed of the **world’s largest economies**. 
- accounts for 90% of the Gross World Product
- Accounts for 75-80% of International Trade
- Accounts for 2/3 of the World’s population

Founded in 2008 in response to several world [[economic crisis]]. It holds a convention once a year.

```ad-warning
title: IMPORTANT
G20 is not an Organization. G20 -> Informal Forum
However, G20 holds significant political capital because of the nature of its members
```

In 2009, the G20 declared itself as the primary venue for international economic and financial cooperation. Its now recognized by analysts as excercising considerable global influence.

**Aim of the Forum** → Discuss policy related to the promotion of international financial stability.

```ad-note
title: G20 Positive?
The G20 is good at making efficient and swift decisions in times of crisis because of its compact membership and informal institution.
```


# G20 Criticism
Important Note: [[Global Development Policies]] | [[The G20 as an improvised crisis committee]]

## Exclusivity of Membership
A 2011 report for the Danish Institute for International Studies criticised the G20’s exclusivity, particularly highlighting its underrepresentation of African countries and its practice of inviting observers from non-member states as a “concession at the margins” **which do not grant the organization representational legitimacy**

```ad-note
Although the G20 is **more** representative than the G7 or the G8, such case does not grant the G20 representative legitimacy
```

Responding to this, Barrack Obama Stated:
>“Everybody wants the smallest possibble group that includes them. So, if they're the 21st largest nation in the world, they want the G21, and think it's highly unfair if they have been cut out”

### Norwegian Perspective
Out of the 193 countries who are all members of the UN, 173 are not represented in the G20, including Norway. Norway is a major developed economy and the seventh largest contributor to UN International Development Program. Jonas Gahr Støre, Norway’s Prime Minister, stated that
> The G20 is a self-appointed group. Its composition is determined by the major countries and powers. It may be more representative than the G7 or the G8, in which only the richest countries are represented, but it is still **arbitrary**. We no longer live in the 19th century, a time when the major powers met and redrew the map of the World. No one needs a new [[Congress of Vienna]]

### Global Governance Group (3G)
Main Article: [[Global Governance Group]]
```ad-note
The Global Governance Group recognizes the swift and decisive nature of the G20 which helped it alleviate global economic disasters.

3G Group was founded not to undermine the G20 but to **strengthen** it.
```
June 2010; Singapore’s representative to the [[United Nations]] warned the G20 that its decisions would affect “all countries, big and small”, and asserted that prominent non-G20 members should be include in financial reform discussions.

Singapore then took a leading role in organizing the [[Global Governance Group]], an informal grouping of 30 non-G20 countries (including several *microstates*, and many Third-World Countries) with the aim of **collectively channeling their views into the G20 process more effectively.** Because of Singapore’s Chairing in the 3G, Singapore was then invited to the 2010 - 2017 summit of the G20. 

