# On the Russo-Ukrainian Crisis

Russia has sent troops to its border with Ukraine in recent months. Experts are saying that this is the most extensive unannounced military buildup since the 2014 annexation of Crimea. It would not be entirely unreasonable to assume that Russia plans to invade Ukraine. However, in this essay, the writer will argue that the Invasion of Ukraine is ultimately not the Russian’s goal.

To understand this issue better, we must first understand the historical context of the Russo-Ukrainian War. After the fall of the USSR, The West, mainly the United States, started incorporating Eastern Europe into its political hemisphere. To do this, the USA devised three core strategies: NATO Expansion, European Union (hereafter, “the EU”) Expansion, and Fostering the Orange Revolutions. NATO expansion can be clearly seen, starting from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Latvia, and many more. However, this process ultimately epitomises in the 2008 NATO summit where NATO announced that “We welcome Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic aspirations for membership in NATO.” Unsurprisingly, Putin did not react well to this announcement, as Ukraine is considered to be one of Russia’s core strategic interests.

After the summit, Putin tried to get a deal worked out between Ukraine, Russia, and the EU. A deal that the EU declined. Yanukovych, Ukraine’s former president, aligned with Moscow, also opposes this deal. Meanwhile, The United States has been planting the seeds of revolution, often with the pretext of “Promoting Democracy.” In 2013, these seeds grew and manifested themselves into starting a massive protest across Ukraine. A few months after that, in 2014, with the ever-growing animosity of the demonstrations, Yanukovych fled the country to Russia to save his life. In response to these protests, Russia swiftly occupies Crimea.

Common wisdom regarding this issue points to Russia’s ambition to become a “New Soviet Union.” Still, the writer argues that this could not be further from the truth. If Russia’s ambitions were so, they would have actualised it a long time ago. To put it simply, Russia cannot become a mega-state like the USSR, especially considering the hegemonic nature of the United States and the EU. With the current security and political climate of Russia and the world, the writer argues that Russia is putting out a statement to the West. If Russia cannot have a neutral buffer-like state Ukraine, the West also cannot have it. As was prominently said by Professor John Mearsheimer, Russia is wrecking Ukraine. When we look at the core strategic interests of Russia, keeping Ukraine as a buffer is at the top of it. This means that Russia will do everything in its power to stop the West from gaining political influence on Russia’s western border.

The US is currently the most persistent hegemonic power in the world. This affords them to pursue a more outlandish foreign policy. In this spirit, The West is doubling down regarding its response to Russia. In the long term, this is a zero-sum game. The writer believes that Russia will not stop its retaliation against the West because of Russia's core strategic interest. Moreover, even if the US can back Putin into a corner, this does not necessarily mean good because Russia is a tremendous power and has hundreds of nuclear arsenal at its disposal. What is stopping Putin from using them?

In conclusion, the current state of the Russo-Ukrainian War is a zero-sum game that will inevitably bring disastrous consequences if not tread carefully. The writer, therefore, believes that the best outcome will arise from working towards a neutral Ukraine and making Ukraine into a buffer state between the West and Russia.
